# Dengue_Spread_ML_Project
INTRODUCTION: Dengue disease, also known as a mosquito-borne infection was first documented in 1779, its viral cause was confirmed in the early 20th century, where it was found that this infection is transmitted by Aedes Aesgypti mosquitoes, which were mostly found in tropical and subtropical climates. To prevent this infection, controlling mosquito population became significant to avoid mosquito bites to be safe from this infection. Key measures to achieve this are, elimination of stagnant water, applying mosquito repellent cream, installing window screens and bed nets etc. Public health campaigns and control programs also plays crucial role in controlling and reducing mosquito population. Several studies have shown a string link between dengue transmission and climatic conditions [12], which helps mosquito in breeding, resulting in increased population and higher number of dengue infection in affected areas.
RESULT: The four machine learning models were trained on a dataset comprising 602 entries, and then they were compared in terms of accuracy. A confusion matrix was plotted for each algorithm to show their overall performance for each target attribute. The results, presented in Table III, highlightsthe overall accuracy achieved by each model, out of which K-Nearest Neighbor model had best accuracy of 99%, among other algorithms.
CONCLUSION: In this study, our aim was to identify climatic conditions that influence spread of Dengue disease and the best algorithm to predict those spread. We found out attribute Temperature, Humidity and Windspeed displayed good relation with the spread of Dengue in an area. Then we divided the area spread of dengue cases into classes from Little to No risk to Severe Risk, in which machine learning algorithm were used, which helped us to make best model to predict early spread using these climatic conditions. We compared four of these algorithms i.e. Random Forest, Logistic Regression, Gaussian Naïve Bayes, and K-Nearest 
Neighbor in terms of their accuracy and confusion matrix. We found that K-Nearest Neighbor showed best prediction capabilities compared to the other algorithms with accuracy of 99%. For upcoming future, we may consider researching about more features influencing dengue cases and usingensemble machine learning algorithms, such as Categorical Boosting Algorithm, Extreme Gradient Boosting Algorithm,Light Gradient Boosting Machine to increase performance of our model. These algorithms combine combines multiple weak base models to create one strong base model, this enhances accuracy and adjust the predictions by merging different predictions to identify best.
